DNA Center can deploy Cisco's SDA (Software Defined Access), and is a SDN solution.

What is SDN? 
    History 
        Used to have issues like: 
            Deciding what vendor to go with 
                If using multiple, techs would have to try to make diff. devices work together 
                Generally wanted to go with a single vendor because reduced complexity 
        Idea of SDN was to move the management of devices to a centralized controller. 
            Is standards-based 
                1st SDN protocol was OpenFlow  
    Modern 
        Still have SDN controller 
            Hardware is generally from the same vendor as the controller 
        The goal of SDN is to help org. manage their growing networks 
            Ex. Stretching L2 between two locations greatly increases the broadcast / STP domains. 
            We solve this with SDN via Overlay/Underlays 
        Overlay 
            A set of tunnels as a networking construct in order to connect switches to each other to form the topology we want 
            The overlay is the topology we want the network to look like 
        Underlay 
            The physical hardware. What the network actually looks like. 
        Programmability  
            REST APIs for configuring networking gear 
                Uses structured language like JSON/XML to accomplish that 
            Can use these same elements on the controller itself, and the controller will then push those configurations to the network hardware. 
        Assurance 
            Uses AI machine learning to actively look for problems on the network - even before they are reported yet. 
        Cisco 
            Use a declarative SDN model 
            Controller tells hardware what to do. The network hardware has the intelligence to make that happen. 
        Other vendors 
            Use an imperative SDN model 
            Controller isn't really pushing configurations down. Its playing the role of the control plane  
                It makes all the forwarding decisions and then populates mac tables/ routing tables, etc. 
                Controller is very important. If it goes down, you just lost the control plane.  

Scaling out L2 networks via ethernet is a pain 
    In most cases our security / QOS policies are deployed in vlans / subnets (just to say L2) 
        In traditional networks, since VLANs need to be stretch to cover as many devices as possible, it means we arent able to deploy L3 on the access layer in many cases. 
